# Cloudflare Vectorize
Build full-stack AI applications with Vectorize, Cloudflare's powerful vector database.
Vectorize is a globally distributed vector database that enables you to build full-stack, AI-powered applications with [Cloudflare Workers](/workers/). Vectorize makes querying embeddings — representations of values or objects like text, images, audio that are designed to be consumed by machine learning models and semantic search algorithms — faster, easier and more affordable.
Vectorize is currently in public beta and is enabled for all developers on Workers Paid plans. During the beta, you may run into bugs and instability which may make it unsuitable for production-facing workloads.
Read [the announcement blog](https://blog.cloudflare.com/vectorize-vector-database-open-beta/) to learn more about Vectorize.
For example, by storing the embeddings (vectors) generated by a machine learning model, including those built-in to [Workers AI](/workers-ai/) or by bringing your own from platforms like [OpenAI](#), you can build applications with powerful search, similarity, recommendation, classification and/or anomaly detection capabilities based on your own data.
The vectors returned can reference images stored in Cloudflare R2, documents in KV, and/or user profiles stored in D1 — enabling you to go from vector search result to concrete object all within the Workers platform, and without standing up additional infrastructure.
## Features
Learn how to create your first Vectorize database, upload vector embeddings, and query those embeddings from [Cloudflare Workers](/workers/).
Learn how to use Vectorize to generate vector embeddings using Workers AI. 
## Related products
Run machine learning models, powered by serverless GPUs, on Cloudflare’s global network.
Store large amounts of unstructured data without the costly egress bandwidth fees associated with typical cloud storage services.
## More resources
Learn about what limits Vectorize has during the open beta and how to work within them.
Learn more about the storage and database options you can build on with Workers.
Connect with the Workers community on Discord to ask questions, join the `#vectorize-open-beta` channel to show what you are building, and discuss the platform with other developers.
Follow @CloudflareDev on Twitter to learn about product announcements, and what is new in Cloudflare Developer Platform.